Docs/contributing (#127)
osrf/rmf_core: docs/contributing.md

  ///   It takes in a value
  ///
  /// \param[out] out_value
  ///   It puts out a value
  ///
  /// \return some result
  ResultType snake_case_member_functions(
    InputValue in_value,
    OutputValue& out_value) const;

private:
  /* ... etc ... */
};

} // namespace B
} // namespace A

```

A class that is only used internally

```
class ImplementationClass
{
public:

  /// documentation
  double snake_case_public_members_uncommon;

  void foo(Bar bar);

private:

  int _lead_with_underscore;

};
```

A class that defines an interface

```

class AbstractInterfaceClass
{
public:

  /// Only pure abstract member functions.
  /// No data fields or implemented
  ///functions
  virtual ReturnType pure_virtual_function(
    SomeArgType arg1,
    SomeArgType arg2) = 0;

};
```

**RMF Linter**

Most of these styles and restrictions can be checked with the `ament_uncrustify` command line tool using [this configuration file](https://github.com/osrf/rmf_core/blob/master/rmf_utils/test/format/rmf_code_style.cfg).

Example usage:
```
cd workspace/
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/osrf/rmf_core/master/rmf_utils/test/format/rmf_code_style.cfg
source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash

> ament_uncrustify -c emf_code_style.cfg .

Reviewer: typo here

```suggestion
ament_uncrustify -c rmf_code_style.cfg .
```

Author: Thanks @koonpeng!

# Contributing to RMF

> Contributions via pull requests to the various RMF-related repositories are welcome. In general, we expect contributors to follow the ROS 2 [contributing guidelines](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/) with exception of the code style. The RMF codebases adopt slightly different guidelines from the ROS 2 [style guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Code-Style-Language-Versions/#codestyle). The objective of this document is to highlight these guidelines for the following languages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Contributions via pull requests to the various RMF-related repositories are welcome.
In general, we expect contributors to follow the [ROS 2 contributing guidelines](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/), with the exception of code style.
The RMF code adopts slightly different guidelines from the [ROS 2 style guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Code-Style-Language-Versions/#codestyle).
The objective of this document is to provide the RMF code style guidelines for the following languages.
```

One line per sentence with no wrapping makes doing diffs in the future much easier.
(Also there are some grammatical changes in the above suggestion.)

Reviewer 2: The code style guide below is not a full-coverage style guide. Should we say "Follow the ROS 2 style guide except for the modifications listed below." or something along those lines?

* C++
    * Standard
    * Style

* Python
  * Version
  * Style

## RMF Code Style 

### C++
#### Standard

> The `eloquent` release targeted C++14, however from version `foxy`, C++17 will be targeted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `eloquent` release uses C++14
- The `foxy` release uses C++17
```

#### Style

**Line Length**

* Maximum line length is 80 characters.

**File Naming and Extensions**
  * Original files with public interfaces should follow `CamelCase` convention

>   * Header files should use the .hpp extension and must include header guards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Header files should use the `.hpp` extension and must include header guards
```

>   * Implementation files should use the .cpp extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Implementation files should use the `.cpp` extension.
```

**Braces**
  * Use open braces without indenting the braces for function, class, and struct definitions and on if, else, while, for, etc…
  * Cuddle braces on namespace definitions only

**Indentations**
  * Two-space indentation per level
  * Two-space continued indentation for function definition/call parameters

**Variable Naming**
  * All variable names should use `snake_case`
  * Private member variables should be prefixed with an underscore `_`

**Function and Method Naming**
  * All function names including class member functions should use `snake_case`

**Classes**
  * Class names should always use `CamelCase`

>   * No space/indentation for privacy specifiers (`public`, `private`, `protected`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Privacy specifiers (`public`, `private`, `protected`) should not be indented
```

>   * Only member functions and no data fields allowed inside `public` scope in public APIs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Only member functions are allowed in `public` scope in public APIs (no `public` data members)
```

>   * Two-space indent for other class statements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Two-space indentation for other class statements
```

>   * Leading colon between constructor and member initialization. No space/indent for constructor initializer list. Trailing commas between members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Leading colon between a constructor and its member initialization list
  * No space/indent for constructor initialization lists
  * Trailing commas between members in the initialization lists
```

  * Do not use `struct` in public APIs. Usage in internal implementation is allowed.

>   * Abstract interface classes should contain only pure abstract member functions. No data fields or function implementations allowed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Abstract interface classes should contain only pure abstract member functions. No data fields or function implementations are allowed
```

**Namespaces**
* Cuddle brace for namespaces with a space between the name and the opening brace
* No indentation for namespace contents (including nested namespaces)
* Closing brace to be followed with a comment with the namespace name, e.g,
```
namespace A {

/* code */

} // namespace A
```

**Pointer and Reference Syntax Alignment**
  * Left-align `*` and `&`

**Comments and Doc Comments**
  * Use /// and /** */ comments for documentation purposes and // style comments for notes and general comments

**Examples**

Description of a class
```
namespace A {
namespace B {
class UpperCamelCase
{
public:

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this blank line intentional? I can't see a mention of it in the guidelines.

  UpperCamelCase(Foo foo, Bar bar)
  : _foo(foo),
    _bar(bar),
    _baz(Baz(foo, bar))
  {
  } 

  /// This is an example function
  ///
  /// And here is a longer description blah blah blah
  ///
  /// \param[in] in_value
  ///   It takes in a value
  ///
  /// \param[out] out_value
  ///   It puts out a value
  ///
  /// \return some result
  ResultType snake_case_member_functions(

>       InputValue in_value,

Reviewer 2: This has four-space indentation for the function continuation. The guideline states two.

Author: That's embarrassing. Thanks for catching that. Fixed https://github.com/osrf/rmf_core/pull/127/commits/d7e57907e1e91df196d9316d8e0628cb4bbc1c53

      OutputValue& out_value) const;

private:
  /* ... etc ... */
};

} // namespace B
} // namespace A

```

A class that is only used internally

```
class ImplementationClass
{
public:

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this blank line intentional? I can't see a mention of it in the guidelines.

Author: It is not a requirement to have a blank line after the privacy specifier. The linter is configured to be flexible with this rule. Do you recommend mentioning this in the guidelines?

  /// documentation
  double snake_case_public_members_uncommon;

  void foo(Bar bar);

private:

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this blank line intentional? I can't see a mention of it in the guidelines.

  int _lead_with_underscore;

};
```

A class that defines an interface

```

class AbstractInterfaceClass
{
public:

>   

Reviewer 2: Is this blank line intentional? I can't see a mention of it in the guidelines.

  /// Only pure abstract member functions.
  /// No data fields or implemented
  ///functions
  virtual ReturnType pure_virtual_function(

>      SomeArgType arg1,

Reviewer 2: This is indented 3 spaces.

Author: Fixed https://github.com/osrf/rmf_core/pull/127/commits/d7e57907e1e91df196d9316d8e0628cb4bbc1c53

     SomeArgType arg2) = 0;

};
```

**RMF Linter**

> Most of these styles and restrictions can be checked with the `ament_uncrustify` command line tool using this [configuration](https://github.com/osrf/rmf_core/blob/master/rmf_utils/test/format/rmf_code_style.cfg) file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of these styles and restrictions can be checked with the `ament_uncrustify` command line tool using [this configuration file](https://github.com/osrf/rmf_core/blob/master/rmf_utils/test/format/rmf_code_style.cfg).
```

Example usage:
```
cd workspace/
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/osrf/rmf_core/master/rmf_utils/test/format/rmf_code_style.cfg
source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
ament_uncrustify -c emf_code_style.cfg .
```
The `--reformat` option may be passed into the `ament_uncrustify` call to apply the changes in place. However, this is recommended only after manually reviewing the changes.

### Python
### Version

> Python 3 is targeted for development.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to specify a minor version? Many library features are not available in earlier minor versions.

Ubuntu Focal has Python 3.8 as the default.

Author: That is a good point. Should we specify Python 3.6.5 and above?

Reviewer 2: @mxgrey What minimum Python features are required?

Reviewer 3: If this document is specific to `rmf_core`, then we're not using Python at all in this repo, and I don't ever intend to. The Python bindings for the fleet adapter are in a [separate repository](https://github.com/osrf/rmf_fleet_adapter_python), so I would put any declarations about Python requirements in there.

Author: The document is not specific to `rmf_core` and is meant to serve as a guide for all repos under the RMF umbrella.

Reviewer 3: I'm not really inclined to declare a requirement without a specific reason.

`rmf_core` doesn't use Python, and it doesn't put any requirement on any RMF user to use any particular version of Python. Someone could choose to create a fleet adapter using Python 2, and it would be no sweat off our backs.

`traffic-editor` uses Python, so that could be a reference point for what version of Python to require, but `traffic-editor` is not a tool that RMF users are required to use. More importantly, `traffic-editor` is an offline tool; it's not part of an operational deployment of RMF. An RMF user could install Python 3.6.9 on the computer where they use `traffic-editor` but then use Python 3.5 for their fleet adapter, and there would be no inherent problem with that.

My opinion would be that we just shouldn't mention Python here, and that this contributions document should not govern all of RMF, much like the ROS2 contribution guidelines don't govern the entire ROS2 ecosystem (they just govern the core modules that are developed at OSRF).

Author: Thanks for the clarification. I've removed the python section from the doc.
